Have you ever been in a situation where you had to make a choice among a few options, but did not have a lot of time to explore each option.
Tell me about a time when you made an important decision without any data?
Tell me a time you took some risk
A time when you had to cut corners to meet a deadline.
Time when you were working on a project on a time constraint


Give an example of when you saw a peer struggling and decided to step in and help. What was the situation and what actions did you take? What was the outcome?
Time when you helped someone grow but did not benefit them.
Tell me about a time when you earned your teammate's trust?
Have you ever gone out of your way to help a peer?


Time when your team members were not supporting something but you pushed and went for a more optimal solution.
Time when you pushed back a decision from your management for better long term benefits.
Have you ever had to make a tough decision without consulting anybody?


Tell me about a time when you couldn't meet your deadline?
Have you ever failed at something? What did you learn from it?
Time when you failed to meet your commitment


Tell me a time when you hit a roadblock.
Tell me about a time you faced an obstacle and how you overcame it.


Tell me about a time when you invented something?
Time when you came up with novel solution.
What’s the toughest bug you resolved?


Tell me a time when your customer asked for a feature, and you realized that is not what their actual use case needs. And proposed a new feature that aligns with their use case.


Tell me about a situation where you had a conflict with someone on your team. What was it about? What did you do? How did they react? What was the outcome?


Time when you were 75% through a project and realized you had the wrong goal.


Tell me a time when you received negative feedback from manager and how you responded.


Time when you went above and beyond your job responsibilities.


Time when you needed help from somebody


Tell me about a time when you learned new technologies


A project you're proud of


What’s your typical day at work?


What kind of work do you feel is challenging?


What one thing you want to change?
